>> Jon Kuperman: So
that was the first exercise.
We had a couple of little
things that I messed up
on that I was gonna cover really quick.
So the first one, well the first
big one which was addressed and
we gonna cover this in a later section but
apparently someone ran
the navigation through a tool and
the color contrast isn't enough to meet.
Either double or
triple A compliance, so we're gonna,
we'll actually take a big look at colors,
I do apologize.
I picked a Bootstrap theme that
I thought would looked nice and
assumed it would be accessible, but
we'll go ahead and fix that later.
Somebody had mentioned
the use of main tags.
Hoping people can see over here and
why they use a main tag.
I think that looking at it,
a main is not the correct tag to use here.
The basic idea is going for
a div is pretty much
meaningless in HTML, and so wanting to
have something like article or section or
something to give more semantic
meaning to what each area represents.
Which can be used, but
different screen readers use them in nicer
ways to kind of announce what's going on.
But I think if I had all to do over again,
that a section tag would be more
appropriate for all of these.
And so yeah, I would go ahead I
hadn't changed those to sections,
going forward in this.
I also, actually, after it was mentioned,
I think that main also only gets
to be used once in a document.
As far as having context and those get
treated kind of as divs afterwards so
I think it didn't do much good there.
But I would probably use sections,
tThe big thing is like,
on a single paged website like this.
Denoting each area as something more than
just another div on the page, right?
Like this is something to be kind
of looked at as an article or
a section or something like that.
Also, this used to have a focus.js file,
so I think some people that
were kind of hopping ahead or
looking in the console saw
that focus js is failing.
We're not using that.
So sorry about that still being in there.
I think, in an attempt to make this easy,
it's just, there's no server.
So it's just duplicates
of [INAUDIBLE] HTML file.
So yeah, I think that if you do a search
with your text editor, you'll see two
reference [INAUDIBLE] To that, which you
can just remove or you can just ignore.
The errors not gonna, you know,
not gonna cause a problem but there's no,
there's no need for a focus JS file.
All we're gonna cover focus
in the next exercise,
but if anybody saw that council error.
That's not a big deal there.
I think that was everything.
I think I got everything
that was mentioned in chat.
If there's something I missed,
feel free to put it in there.
And then we can go ahead and
cover some of this Stuff,
so, this was the example that I
was talking about where I had it
where if you would click on something like
tabindex then, you would start tabbing.
It used to take you all the way back
to the top of the document but,
Chrome very cleverly has
made that not necessary but,
you can still kinda get used to things
like, you know, like starting at the top
of a document and then,
I've got this relatively link up here Boy.
Boom.
And then tabing through and
seeing what that is like.
And then tabing through a form and
shift tabing back up.
I think that is kind of like
the big takeaways here,
is that I just wanted people to
get some experience with it.
And then one thing you might notice with
the form is that You can fill out all of
these different things and you can
experiment with the arrow keys and stuff.
Hit remember me.
And then when you go to cancel or
submit it just kind of takes you
back up to the URL bar here.
And so this gets us into one of, if not
the biggest antipattern inaccessibility.
Which is if we pop over
here to the actual code...
We'll notice that these two things,
while they look like buttons, they
are not actually buttons, they're dibs.
And people do this quite often.
I think one of the biggest things is that
there's a lot of styles that come with
the button tag and people kind of
don't want to deal with that so
they think An easier way would be to
take a div and then you have a nice,
clean slate as far as css goes.
The problem is, and this goes back to
Jack's comment at the beginning of that,
there's a ton of functionality and
meta information attributed to these
attributes, to these tags, I mean.
Different HTML elements, and so, you know,
buttons are tabable, div's are not.
And then buttons, you can hit space and
Enter on them, and divs you can't do that.
So you can start kind of getting into all
these things where it's always a better
approach to use the right element.
And then spend some extra time on
your CSS for it because it's so
easy to miss and
to give ...to give them the right class.
And they look great and,
you know what I mean, but
they just don't have any of that
functionality that comes with it.
>> Speaker 2: Would using
an anchor tag be a good thing?
>> Jon Kuperman: It gets
you some of the way. Again,
it's like kind of just, and we'll get
into some of the specifics, but, yeah,
like so anchor tags have
some of that stuff, right.
So you can tab to them,
which is really nice and
you can hit enter on them
which is really nice as well.
But there are few things that they don't
like one thing is that anchors will
read differently to screen
readers than buttons and
anchors traditionally mean we are taking
you to another location, right?
Whereas like an input type submit or
a button that's something that all
the screen readers all know
kinda of how to work with.
But also miss things like an anchor
has a onclick event built into it but
it doesn't have the same onKeyDown
functionality that a button would have.
You know what I mean, so
you kinda get into these.
So it's like, and
we actually have an example where
we can turn a div into a fully
accessible button if you wanted to.
So there are always ways, like when we
get into ARIA, a lot of what ARIA is
is allowing you to kinda Give
functionality to different elements.
But yeah, I think I would always,
if it all possible, using the right
element is like the best place to start.
So yeah, so we could go ahead
as far as the buttons go like we could
just go ahead and turn these into buttons.
Okay, I don't wanna get
too lost on the code.
We could also turn this and
an input type submit so
people know that it's attached
to the form that we're in.
Another example of HTML giving you free.
I can't think of the word but you know
stuff that works like that so if you have
it as a button tag that's not really right
because then you're gonna need an onclick.
Listener for
the button that submits the form right?
But really like an input type submit
gives you all that functionality,
you guys can like whatever.
Functionality so
like an input type submit all HTML know
that when that thing is interacted with.
Submit the form and
what form that they're attached to so
then the only difference there is it takes
a value instead of having this stuff.
So I could do something like that so we've
got this div was changed into a button and
this one was changed into input type
submit so if I go back over here and
I'm up in my form with
my visual indicators.
You're doing all that stuff and then I
hit remember me and now I can cancel.
It goes back to the top
also I can hit submit.
It's a little bit tough
to see cuz it's blue but
there is a visual indicator there going
back and forth those two buttons.
I'm so again like not to get
lost in the weeds of code but
just the kind of understand from a user's
perspective that we took this form
that could not be filled out before by
keyboard only or screen reader user.
And now have it up with minimal
HTML changes able to be filled out.
And yeah,
the only other thing was those skip links
which I had put in my slides but yeah, the
basic idea you could do something like.
You can stick it up at the very top here.
You can do like a, and then it goes to you
can kinda choose where you wanna to go to.
I guess main ID main, maybe main give it
a class or maybe an ID of skip link, and
then give it to some tasks
like skip to main navigation.
Give it a closing tag, so now when I
refresh, we'll see, actually we won't see.
There it is at the very top,
this link here and so
now all we wanna do is
just a little bit of CSS.
So it is the first thing like if we
refresh the page and then I hit Tab,
you can see the focus comes around.
So now we just wanna hide it
unless it's focused basically.
So we can go in our CSS and
we could do something like
grab ahold of that skip link and
position absolute at top
whatever I said like hide it by 50,
put it in the top left corner.
I don't know,
give it some padding or something,
we can see how this looks but, background:
red; color: white; or something like that.
So it's really obvious, so
now, I think my server is little caching,
hold on a second.
If anybody has, I don't know why
I'm running this on a server,
I guess I could just open it up.
But if anybody's running on a server,
you might wanna watch out for
[INAUDIBLE] caching.
So now, the skip link's hidden but
now we can see it all.
So, the first tab,
doesn't have it anything, So,
now the last stop we need to do is
just give it that focus selector.
So, we do skip-link:focus and
we give a top: 0; something like
that restart my silly server again.
I won't do anymore on the server, come on.
What have I done?
Sorry about that.
So go in here and we can just give it some
z index as many as we can, okay, cool.
So now you have this page here and
you hit tab on it and
skip to main navigation, comes down and
if you ignore it, it goes back away.
And then, if you go ahead and hit it,
it brings you the welcome
to our first exercise.
So that's the basic idea, there.
Sorry the index thing was
a little bit bumpy, but again,
without getting caught in
the weeds of the code.
Just some things that you're starting to
really communicate with users here and
just making things a lot easier, yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Dave P,
is saying the rule of thumb is for
the A anchor tag to
navigate to another page.
Or within the page, and the button element
tag is for doing something on the page.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, anchors, exactly,
you're moving you somewhere else.
And then again, also- cuz it
gets a little bit tricky with,
single page websites still make
sense to use an anchor cuz you
are moving the location
even though it's staying.
So cool.
So yeah, I think like Yeah, basically just
kinda wanted to get everybody
started with like tabbing around and
experiencing some frustrations
that might be there.
And then some pretty easy
solutions to them, cool.
>> Jon Kuperman: All right, so,
again more things that we can
kinda start checking off our list.
Page Functionality,
all Page Functionality is available using
the keyboard unless it can't be done.
So, you kind have, if you have like for
example here, it's like a free hand
drawing section like, that's not gonna
be able to be done with the keyboard.
But, anything as far as like
inputting on a form, clicking links,
all that kind of stuff.
Keyboard focus is never locked or trapped
at a particular page element We might
cover that, we have like a whole
section on keyboard tracts.
But basically you should always be able
to keep moving around on the page.
And again, kind of like this triple a all
page functionalities available using
the keyboard.
So I guess now might be a good time,
there's a question right before we
started the excercise about triple A.
So basically,
with all this accessibility stuff,
there's three levels of compliance to it.
Which you can see on my slides, and
this is from the WebAIM.org, so
there's Level A, Level A, Level AAA.
Oftentimes, the second level of compliance
is double A, but these are two.
So it's basically like I
can't get the word but,
triple A means that it has A compliance,
AA compliance and triple so, basically,
it's like a list of things that build.
So, like A compliance might be like,
you know, all page functionality
Values available is on the keyboard,
unless it can't be reproduced.
And as so, our site now is A compliant but
if we had a drawing thing, it wouldn't be
AAA compliant because AAA compliant means
it's a harder one to achieve basically.
So there's these three levels, A, AA,
AAA each one includes all the requirements
of the platform plus the new ones.
And you can see all those
on the webAIM's site, so
then you can Depending on what you hit,
be our site's AA compliant.
It's not AAA compliant because we
have this free hand drawing tool,
which is important to our users, and
we can't do that with a keyboard.
Things like that does that make sense?
I think somebody had asked on chat.